This recording is an oral presentation of the Spring 2007 Ohio Graduation Tests for writing. This recording is secure a test material. The Ohio Revised Code prohibits the disclosure of test questions, passages, representations or any other materials contained on this recording to a student who will be administered this test. The Ohio Administrative Code 3301 one, three Five prohibits any person from releasing, causing to be released, reproducing, or causing to be reproduced any secure materials in any form or medium for the oral administration of a test. Any recordings made of student responses are similarly secure and must be returned to the test. Contractor violations of the statute may result in the invalidation of a student's test score, suspension of licenses to teach and or prosecution. This recording is copyright 2007 by the Ohio Department of Education. The Ohio Department of Education does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, religion, age or disability in employment or the provision of services. Writing Test Directions The maximum time allowed for the test is two and a half hours. Plan your time to completely respond to the two writing prompt questions because 36 of the 48 total possible points on this test can be earned by responding to them. One writing prompt question is at the beginning of the test the other is at the end. You may refer to the questions as often as necessary for writing prompt questions. Space is provided for pre writing activities. This section is provided for planning your writing. Nothing written in this space will be scored. Make sure the draft you want scored is written in the lined section of the answer document. Your draft needs to be legible to be scored. It may be imprinted or cursive. Handwriting, revising and editing are encouraged, although for the purposes of this test you will not be able to use reference materials, erasing, crossing out and other editing changes may be made right on your draft in the answer document. You may not need to use the entire space provided, but be sure your answer is complete. For multiplechoice questions, most questions are associated with a brief paragraph or a sentence. Some of the questions are clustered together, others stand alone. After reading the paragraph or sentence and the question, choose the correct answer and mark the corresponding circle in your answer document. If you change an answer, be sure to erase the first mark completely for the short answer question. Answer completely in the answer document in the space provided. You may not have to use the entire space provided, but be sure your answer is complete at any time during this test. You are allowed to pause your CD while you complete your work. In addition, you may skip a question and go back to that question later during the writing test to complete your work. You may listen to only the writing test at this time.